The first thing we're gonna do is
compile a basic TypeScript program.
And this is gonna be about the simplest
program that we can think of,
consisting only of three files.
Our goals in this chapter are to learn
a little bit about how to use
the TSC compiler command.
We're going to learn and understand
how JavaScript language level and
module type affect the kinda thing
that comes out of our compiler.
And then, finally, we're gonna look at
other things that come out of the compiler
than JavaScript, right?
We're gonna see some type information that
we could potentially publish along with
this code.
If it were a library and
this is called the declaration file.
Which has the extension .d.ts.
So let's consider a simple project,
as I said, it'll consist of three files.
So we've got package JSON,
which is the normal package JSON you're
used to seeing in JavaScript project.
We have a tsconfig file, which
contains all of the instructions, and
options, or passing to the compiler.
And then, finally,
we have some source code.
So let's look at these
three files one by one.
In package JSON,
we can see a couple of things.
We have only one dependency, and it's
a dev dependency, and that is TypeScript.
In addition to that,
we have an NPM script.
So that we could run something like
yarn Dev, or NPM, run Dev, and
we would see the TypeScript compiler
start up and watch our source code.
So that every time we save a file,
it'll incrementally kind
of update the build result.
If you've used Webpack-dev-server or
something like nodemon,
this will give you similar behavior.
And preserve watch output
this just make sure that
every save does not clear
your console's output.
You kind of wanna keep that
council output, in my opinion,
I don't like things erasing
my terminal history.
So let's look at our tsconfig,
the second of the three files.
We have only three
properties in this file, and
we're gonna start from the bottom.
So include tells the compiler
where to find our source code.
In this case, we're going to end
up compiling all ts files that we
find in the source folder,
that's just index ts.
We have two compiler options
that we're defining here.
First is, where are we going
to put our output, right?
Everything that the compiler generates.
By default, TypeScript will create
JavaScript files that are side by side
with the TypeScript
source that created them.
I don't like this because it kind of mixes
my build result with my source code.
I like having everything in a folder
like dist or out, something like that.
So that if I ever wanna clear
everything away and build again,
I can just rm rf and
be rid of the built stuff.
Finally, we have a target property, and
this helps us describe the language
level of our build output.
By default, it's ES3,
which is kind of like Internet Explorer
six level of JavaScript.
And we're gonna start there and see
the garbage that the compiler spits out.
And we're gonna crank that language level
up to more and more modern JavaScript.
Let's say we were only
supporting modern browsers, and
we'll see that things get
cleaned up quite nicely.
So it's important to understand
that everything we described in
this compiler object can be passed
to the TSC command, as a COI flag.
So here's an example of outDir.
Now, I don't typically like
using VCLI flags except in very,
very simple situations.
I'm very quick to sort of set up
a tsconfig and have this nice,
you know, configuration that I
can check in with my project.
And I can be sure that I'm gonna be
running exactly the same command over and
over again.
The last of the three files we're
gonna at, is the source code, right,
this index.ts file.
And it's not a big program, but
it contains a couple interesting
things that will present us with
some clear signals about how
the compiler responds to that
target property, this here.
As well as the type of module we
instruct the compiler to make for us.
So you're going to see that it
includes the use of a promise,
which only came with JavaScript
2015 edition, right, ES2015.
Then we'll see that a sync and
await are used,
which kind of had partial support
through generator functions in ES2015.
But it only got real clear
support like using a sync and
await as keywords that came in ES2017.
So we should start to see
things kind of disappear and
become the more normal code that we're
used to reading modern JavaScript as
we crank that language level up.
And here is the source code.
So all this program does,
here's the entry point.
It console.log something,
and what is it console.log?
Well, it's whatever addNumbers returns and
that gets awaited.
So addNumbers, just waits for half
a second and then adds a and b together.
So effectively we should see
like a half second wait and
then seven printed to our console,
not too complicated.
This is a good opportunity for
me to show you one of
the features of this website that
we're gonna be looking at today.
You can hover over various
symbols in these code samples and
see what you would be seeing
in Visual Studio Code.
So this is a little bit like a read
only VS Code frame where you can
really understand the types of
everything that you're touching.
This is really, really important
because the tooltips don't lie,
this will tell you why something
is failing and it helps,
you understand what's
going on within the code.
So the vast majority of the code samples,
you'll see today allow you to do this.
Additionally, if we want to see this
code run in the TypeScript playground,
you could hit this try button.
And it would take you right here and
you'd be able to actually click logs,
and run this, and
right now, we can't run it.
But because we have an expert
in this playground,
which it's not designed to handle.
But you're gonna be able to actually,
play with each of these examples and
I encourage you to poke at them and
to understand them, and
to maybe try to break
them try to fix them.
So let's go back to what
we were just looking at.
So this is our small program and here I'm
cluing you into hovering over tooltips.
So how might we run the compiler?
Well, if you were to check this program
out this this repo out what you could, you
could run yarn dev, and you would see that
TypeScript is starting to watch your code.
And immediately you would
see a dist folder created,
which would contain an index.js file.
And we can look at what
that code would be and
shield your eyes because it's a mess.
This is like all the polyfills,
right, this is a sync and
await and promises and
just a bunch of junk here, right?
Remember, this is really dumbed
down JavaScript for IE6.
So we're gonna close this,
be done with it.
And that'll be our starting point,
just a bunch of junk.
So let's change the target language level,
we can simply go from ES3 to ES2015.
Leaving everything else intact, and
the compiler output would change.
So now we start to see some more
modern language features, but
not everything we're used to seeing.
So there is a promise constructor which
is nice, we do see a yield keyword.
Interesting that we got this in ES2015,
but we didn't get a sync and await yet.
So we have a generator function
which makes the polyfill for
a sync and await makes it much cleaner.
Because that's a very important thing to
be able to use to define a sync and await.
But it doesn't yet look like our source
code with the type stripped away.
That's where we're sort of
working our way towards.
So this is ES2015 if we step up to ES2017,
this is what it would look like.
So we're going to see actual use
of the a sync and await keywords.
And this a waiter helper,
which is this thing up here,
that will have disappeared and here we go.
Now, this looks like our TypeScript
code with the types removed.
So if you're interested in
how to define your output,
target is a really
important thing to define.
One of the questions we got
during the break had to do
with multi target output, right?
What if you're building for
modern browsers and
you have a legacy browser
you need to support.
So typically what I would do is have
TypeScript output something like this,
which by the way, still is in ES modules.
And then you could use something like
Babel to make a legacy build for
IE11 if you need to.
So in your dist folder,
if we had run the compiler,
we would have found
a file called index.d.ts,
and this is a declaration file.
Now, there's a new keyword here that
I'm gonna ask you to ignore for
the time being.
Cuz it's not the most
interesting thing going on here.
The most interesting thing is this appears
to be a function with no implementation.
It's just sort of a semi colon at
the end of the arguments list, right?
So you can think of this almost like
the types that were stripped away from
our source code.
So you start with TypeScript,
which is code that runs and
types, and then your compiler
almost separates those out.
So you get a js file that runs and
you get these dts files,
which contain only the type information.
Why is this good?
Well, it lets people who are just using
JavaScript who aren't writing TypeScript.
They can compile those js files and
just call it a day.
And people who are writing TypeScript,
they can kind of reassemble that together
and have the JavaScript that runs and
the types that describe the constraints.
So this is what will allow you to remain
compatible with users who depend on
your code regardless of whether they
themselves are authoring TypeScript.
So one more thing that's important to
understand are the types of modules
the compiler is emitting.
If we tried to run this code
that we generated up here,
right this code here,
specifically with this export keyword.
If we tried to run this with node,
we would get an error right at that
line with the export keyword, why?
Node wants common j s modules
right this is node js is module
system predates a standardized
JavaScript module.
And even today, although they are moving
towards these standardized modules,
even today,
node wants to run a common j s module.
And you can read more about
that if you click this link.
But if we wanted to make something that
runs with node, it's just as easy as
adding a module property to our
compiler options in the tsconfig file.
And what this is gonna generate for us is
it will change this export add numbers and
we'll change that into
exports.addNumbers equals addNumbers.
So this is the kind of output that
we expect in the node js world.
This represents the easiest and
simplest possible TypeScript
program that you could compile.
Now we're going to pivot and
talk about the programming language.
Now that we kind of know
how to use the tool